docs/source/pantry/tutorials/mlp.rst, before:

.. _mlp:

Multi-layer Neural Network.
===========================

By virture of being here, it is assumed that you have gone through the :ref:`quick_start`.
Let us take this one step further and create a neural network with two hidden layers. We begin as
usual by importing the network class and creating the input layer.

.. code-block:: python

    from yann.network import network
    net = network()
    dataset_params  = { "dataset": "_datasets/_dataset_xxxxxx", "id": 'mnist', "n_classes" : 10 }
    net.add_layer(type = "input", id ="input", dataset_init_args = dataset_params)

Instead of connecting this to a classfier as we saw in the :ref:`quick_start` , let us add a couple
of fully connected hidden layers. Hidden layers can be created using layer ``type = dot_product``.

.. code-block:: python

    net.add_layer (type = "dot_product", 
                   origin ="input", 
                   id = "dot_product_1",
                   num_neurons = 800, 
                   activation ='relu')                   
    net.add_layer (type = "dot_product", 
                   origin ="dot_product_1", 
                   id = "dot_product_2",
                   num_neurons = 800, 
                   activation ='relu')    

Notice the parameters passed. ``num_neurons`` is the number of nodes in the layer. Notice also 
how we modularized the layers by using the ``id`` parameter. ``origin`` represents which layer
will be the input to the new layer. By default yann assumes all layers are input serially and 
chooses the last added layer to be the input. Using ``origin``, one can create various types of
architectures. Infact any directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) that could be hand-drawn could be 
implemented. Let us now add a classifier and an objective layer to this. 

.. code-block:: python

    net.add_layer ( type = "classifier",
                    id = "softmax",
                    origin = "dot_product_2",
                    num_classes = 10,
                    activation = 'softmax',
                    )

    net.add_layer ( type = "objective",
                    id = "nll",
                    origin = "softmax",
                    )

Let us create our own optimizer module this time instead of using the yann default. For any 
``module`` in yann, the initialization can be done using the ``add_module`` method. The 
``add_module`` method typically takes input ``type`` which in this case is ``optimizer`` and a set
of intitliazation parameters which in our case is ``params = optimizer_params``. 
Any module params, which in this case is the ``optimizer_params`` is a dictionary of relevant 
options. A typical ``optimizer setup`` is:

.. code-block:: python 

    optimizer_params =  {        
                "momentum_type"       : 'polyak',             
                "momentum_params"     : (0.9, 0.95, 30),      
                "regularization"      : (0.0001, 0.0002),       
                "optimizer_type"      : 'rmsprop',    
                "id"                  : 'polyak-rms'            
                        }
    net.add_module ( type = 'optimizer', params = optimizer_params )                        

We have now successfully added a Polyak momentum with RmsProp back propagation with some :math:`L_1`
and :math:`L2` norms. This optimizer will therefore solve the following error:

.. math::

    e(\bf{w_2,w_1,w_{\sigma}}) = \sigma(d_2(d_1(\bf{x}),w_1),w_2)w_{\sigma}) + 
                               0.0001(\vert w_2\vert + 
                    \vert w_1\vert + \vert w_{\sigma} \vert) + 0.0002(\vert\vert w_2\vert\vert 
                     \vert\vert w_1\vert\vert + \vert\vert w_{\sigma} \vert\vert)

where :math:`e` is the error, :math:`\sigma(.)` is the sigmoid layer and :math:`d_i(.)` is the
ith layer of the network. Once we are done, we can cook, train and test as usual:

.. code-block:: python

    learning_rates = (0.05, 0.01, 0.001)  

    net.cook( optimizer = 'main',
              objective_layer = 'nll',
              datastream = 'mnist',
              classifier = 'softmax',
              )

    net.train( epochs = (20, 20), 
               validate_after_epochs = 2,
               training_accuracy = True,
               learning_rates = learning_rates,               
               show_progress = True,
               early_terminate = True)

This time, let us not let it run the forty epochs, let us cancel in the middle after some epochs 
by hitting ^c. Once it stops lets immediately test and demonstrate that the ``net`` retains the 
parameters as updated as possible. Once done, lets run ``net.test()``. 

Some new arguments are introduced here and they are for the most part easy to understand in context.
``epoch`` represents a ``tuple`` which is the number of epochs of training and number of epochs of 
fine tuning epochs after that. There could be several of these stages of finer tuning. Yann uses the
term 'era' to represent each set of epochs running with one learning rate. 

``learning_rates`` indicates the leanring rates. The fist element of this learning rate is a 
annealing parameter. ``learning_rates`` is naturally of length that is one higher than ``epochs``.
``show_progress`` will print a progress bar for each epoch. ``validate_after_epochs`` will perform 
validation after such many epochs on a different validation dataset. The full code for this tutorial
with additional commentary can be found in the file ``pantry.tutorials.mlp.py``. If you have 
toolbox cloned or downloaded or just the tutorials downloaded, Run the code as,

.. code-block:: python

    from pantry.tutorials.mlp import mlp
    mlp(dataset = 'some dataset created')

or simply,

.. code-block:: bash

    python pantry/tutorials/mlp.py 

from the toolbox root or path added to toolbox. The ``__init__`` program has all the required
tools to create or load an already created dataset. Optionally as command line argument you can 
provide the location to the dataset.

.. automodule:: pantry.tutorials.mlp
   :members:

Commit message:

added more to the tutorials on mlp

docs/source/pantry/tutorials/mlp.rst, after:

.. _mlp:

Multi-layer Neural Network.
===========================

By virture of being here, it is assumed that you have gone through the :ref:`quick_start`.
Let us take this one step further and create a neural network with two hidden layers. We begin as
usual by importing the network class and creating the input layer.

.. code-block:: python

    from yann.network import network
    net = network()
    dataset_params  = { "dataset": "_datasets/_dataset_xxxxxx", "id": 'mnist', "n_classes" : 10 }
    net.add_layer(type = "input", id ="input", dataset_init_args = dataset_params)

Instead of connecting this to a classfier as we saw in the :ref:`quick_start` , let us add a couple
of fully connected hidden layers. Hidden layers can be created using layer ``type = dot_product``.

.. code-block:: python

    net.add_layer (type = "dot_product", 
                   origin ="input", 
                   id = "dot_product_1",
                   num_neurons = 800, 
                   regularize = True,
                   activation ='relu')    

    net.add_layer (type = "dot_product", 
                   origin ="dot_product_1", 
                   id = "dot_product_2",
                   num_neurons = 800, 
                   regularize = True,
                   activation ='relu')    

Notice the parameters passed. ``num_neurons`` is the number of nodes in the layer. Notice also 
how we modularized the layers by using the ``id`` parameter. ``origin`` represents which layer
will be the input to the new layer. By default yann assumes all layers are input serially and 
chooses the last added layer to be the input. Using ``origin``, one can create various types of
architectures. Infact any directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) that could be hand-drawn could be 
implemented. Let us now add a classifier and an objective layer to this. 

.. code-block:: python

    net.add_layer ( type = "classifier",
                    id = "softmax",
                    origin = "dot_product_2",
                    num_classes = 10,
                    activation = 'softmax',
                    )

    net.add_layer ( type = "objective",
                    id = "nll",
                    origin = "softmax",
                    )

Again notice that we have supplied a lot more arguments than before. Refer the API for more details.
Let us create our own optimizer module this time instead of using the yann default. For any 
``module`` in yann, the initialization can be done using the ``add_module`` method. The 
``add_module`` method typically takes input ``type`` which in this case is ``optimizer`` and a set
of intitliazation parameters which in our case is ``params = optimizer_params``. 
Any module params, which in this case is the ``optimizer_params`` is a dictionary of relevant 
options. A typical ``optimizer setup`` is:

.. code-block:: python 

    optimizer_params =  {        
                "momentum_type"       : 'polyak',             
                "momentum_params"     : (0.9, 0.95, 30),      
                "regularization"      : (0.0001, 0.0002),       
                "optimizer_type"      : 'rmsprop',    
                "id"                  : 'polyak-rms'            
                        }
    net.add_module ( type = 'optimizer', params = optimizer_params )                        

We have now successfully added a Polyak momentum with RmsProp back propagation with some :math:`L_1`
and :math:`L2` co-efficients that will be applied to the layers for which we passed as argument
``regularize = True``. This optimizer will therefore solve the following error:

.. math::

    e(\bf{w_2,w_1,w_{\sigma}}) = \sigma(d_2(d_1(\bf{x}),w_1),w_2)w_{\sigma}) + 
                               0.0001(\vert w_2\vert + 
                    \vert w_1\vert + \vert w_{\sigma} \vert) + 0.0002(\vert\vert w_2\vert\vert 
                     \vert\vert w_1\vert\vert + \vert\vert w_{\sigma} \vert\vert)

where :math:`e` is the error, :math:`\sigma(.)` is the sigmoid layer and :math:`d_i(.)` is the
ith layer of the network. Once we are done, we can cook, train and test as usual:

.. code-block:: python

    learning_rates = (0.05, 0.01, 0.001)  

    net.cook( optimizer = 'main',
              objective_layer = 'nll',
              datastream = 'mnist',
              classifier = 'softmax',
              )

    net.train( epochs = (20, 20), 
               validate_after_epochs = 2,
               training_accuracy = True,
               learning_rates = learning_rates,               
               show_progress = True,
               early_terminate = True)

The ``learning_rate``, supplied here is a tuple. The first indicates a annealing of a linear rate,
the second is the initial learning rate of the first era, and the third value is the leanring rate
of the second era. Accordingly, ``epochs`` takes in a tuple with number of epochs for each era.

This time, let us not let it run the forty epochs, let us cancel in the middle after some epochs 
by hitting ^c. Once it stops lets immediately test and demonstrate that the ``net`` retains the 
parameters as updated as possible. Once done, lets run ``net.test()``. 

Some new arguments are introduced here and they are for the most part easy to understand in context.
``epoch`` represents a ``tuple`` which is the number of epochs of training and number of epochs of 
fine tuning epochs after that. There could be several of these stages of finer tuning. Yann uses the
term 'era' to represent each set of epochs running with one learning rate. ``show_progress`` will 
print a progress bar for each epoch. ``validate_after_epochs`` will perform 
validation after such many epochs on a different validation dataset. The full code for this tutorial
with additional commentary can be found in the file ``pantry.tutorials.mlp.py``. If you have 
toolbox cloned or downloaded or just the tutorials downloaded, Run the code as,

.. code-block:: python

    from pantry.tutorials.mlp import mlp
    mlp(dataset = 'some dataset created')

or simply,

.. code-block:: bash

    python pantry/tutorials/mlp.py 

from the toolbox root or path added to toolbox. The ``__init__`` program has all the required
tools to create or load an already created dataset. Optionally as command line argument you can 
provide the location to the dataset.

.. automodule:: pantry.tutorials.mlp
   :members:
